+++
title = "Using non-standard SSH port with TortoiseSVN"
date = 2010-02-12T05:09:00Z
updated = 2014-02-12T04:43:24Z
tags = ["GNU/Linux", "Systems Administration"]
blogimport = true 
[author]
	name = "Jon Doblados"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/114642277785568765419"
+++

Some of my students reported that they were having problems connecting to their repositories using <a href="http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/">TortoiseSVN</a>. At first, quick checks from my end didn't reveal what caused these, but I realized soon that it wasn't a server issue. It seems like the client software that they were using (TortoiseSVN) didn't know what to make of the `svn+ssh://[user]@[ip]:[port]/[repo]` URL.

I use <a href="http://www.rabbitvcs.org/">RabbitVCS</a> on my Linux boxen and get the same "Network connection closed unexpectedly" message. A colleague at work suggested that since a non-standard port for SSH is used, I should modify my <code>/home/&lt;username&gt;/.subversion/config</code> , look for the <span style="font-family: monospace;">[tunnels] </span>section, and append <code>-p [port number]</code> for the svn tunnel named ssh. Since this particular repository is just one among the dozens I access, I can't modify the default svn tunnel. Instead, I added a custom tunnel for each of the servers that use non-standard SSH ports.</p><br/><p> </p><br/><p><p /> </p><br/><p>For the repo that my students were trying to access, I used <code>ssh2212 = $SVN_SSH ssh -q -o ControlMaster=no -p 2212</code>. So the URL now looks like <code>svn+ssh2212://[user]@[ip]:2212/[repo]</code> and I was able to connect successfully.</p><br/><p><p /> </p><br/><p>In Windows, there are several ways to do this. Since the OS doesn't have a native SSH client executable, users will rely on Cygwin, Putty, or on TortoisePlink.exe (in newer versions of TortoiseSVN).</p><br/><p><p /> </p><br/><p>You can try any of the following solutions (they're all searchable in the Internets) and see if you can get around the problem. I've tried them all on a Windows guest OS on VirtualBox and only the last three solutions worked.</p><br/><ul><br/><li>Using Putty: Use saved session name from Putty in the URL: <code>svn+ssh://[user]@[saved putty session name]/[repo]</code>. Make sure that you configure the session to already use the correct port. </li><br/><li>Using Putty: Alternately, use <code>IP:port</code> format for the Putty saved session name so that you still use the <code>svn+ssh://[user]@[ip]:[port]/[repo]</code> URL format, but you're actually calling the saved session name. </li><br/><li>c. Using client packaged with Tortoise. In TortoiseSVN settings -&gt; Network, change SSH client to <code>"C:Program FilesTortoiseSVNbinTortoisePlink.exe"</code> and use standard <code>svn+ssh://[user]@[ip]:[port]/[repo]</code> URL. </li><br/><li>d. Same as d., but for the SSH client, append <code>-P [port number]</code> </li><br/><li>e. Using a wrapper script, such as the one provided <a href="http://unformatt.com/news/non-standard-ssh-ports-with-tortoise-svn/">here</a> (excellent solution btw), and use it as the SSH client executable in TortoiseSVN settings -&gt; Network.</li><br/></ul><br/><p><p /> </p><br/><p>Hope any one of these work for you. As an inside joke from one of my sysad friends, it was also suggested that I save myself the troubles and just log in to the server and revert to the default SSH port. LOL.</p>
